Dr Mick Lee is a Research Fellow at the Cardiovascular Research Institute, NUS Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, working within the Cardiovascular Metabolic Disease Translational Research Programme. He received his PhD from the National University of Singapore, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine in 2022, and worked on understanding cardiomyocyte cell states using iPSCs and mapping epigenetic regulatory gene programmes in human hearts at the Genome Institute of Singapore, A*STAR. In 2024, he was awarded the Outstanding Research Fellow Award in the NUS Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine. He is currently a young investigator funded by the Singapore National Medical Research Council (NMRC), with long-term research interests in leveraging integrative functional genomics to dissect cardiac development and disease-associated gene signatures that modulate cardiovascular cell states. He has contributed to multiple studies exploring cardiac enhancers and epigenetic regulation in heart failure, as well as using high-dimensional CRISPR screening approaches to investigate cardiomyocyte cell fate and state transitions. He co-leads the iPSC biobank team at NUS, to model genetic diversity and study the impact of genetic variation on cardiovascular and metabolic disease phenotypes using iPSCs. He also plays a leading role in establishing the iPSC work and preclinical 2D and 3D cardiac microtissue models in the laboratory, as well as extending support to other research groups.
He is also an Early Career Council member for the International Society for Heart Research (ISHR), and represents the recently established South-East Asian (SEA) section.
